README.md, before:

# Card Number using Luhn's algorithm

![Luhn-algorithm card-number](https://preview.dragon-code.pro/Luhn's-algorithm/card-number.svg?brand=php&preposition=with)

[![Stable Version][badge_stable]][link_packagist]
[![Unstable Version][badge_unstable]][link_packagist]
[![Total Downloads][badge_downloads]][link_packagist]
[![License][badge_license]][link_license]

## Introduction

Generation and verification of card numbers using Luhn's algorithm: credit, customer loyalty and others.

## Installation

To get the latest version of `Card Number`, simply require the project using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org):

```bash
composer require dragon-code/card-number
```

Or manually update `require` block of `composer.json` and run `composer update` console command.

```json
{
    "require": {
        "dragon-code/card-number": "^1.1"
    }
}
```

## Usage

### Validation

You can validate any numbers with the Luhn algorithm with any input format.

For example:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;

CardNumber::isValid(18); // true
CardNumber::isValid(12); // false

CardNumber::isValid('0018'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('0019'); // false

CardNumber::isValid('123-455'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('123-454'); // false

CardNumber::isValid('12-3456-1239'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('12-3456-1230'); // false

CardNumber::isValid('5580 4733 7202 4733'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('5580 4733 7202 4732'); // false

CardNumber::isValid('5580-4733x7202_47 33'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('5580-4733x7202_47 32'); // false
```

You can validate bank card numbers. To do this, pass the card type as the second argument:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType;

CardNumber::isValid('4026 8434 8316 8683', CardType::visa); // true
CardNumber::isValid('4019 1404 0123 4567', CardType::visa); // true
CardNumber::isValid('2730 1684 6416 1841', CardType::visa); // false
CardNumber::isValid('2201 6868 4646 8444', CardType::visa); // false

CardNumber::isValid('4026 8434 8316 8683', 'visa'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('4019 1404 0123 4567', 'visa'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('2730 1684 6416 1841', 'visa'); // false
CardNumber::isValid('2201 6868 4646 8444', 'visa'); // false
```

You can also check for invalid numbers:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;

CardNumber::isInvalid(18); // false
CardNumber::isInvalid(12); // true

CardNumber::isInvalid('0018'); // false
CardNumber::isInvalid('0019'); // true

CardNumber::isInvalid('123-455'); // false
CardNumber::isInvalid('123-454'); // true

CardNumber::isInvalid('12-3456-1239'); // false
CardNumber::isInvalid('12-3456-1230'); // true

CardNumber::isInvalid('5580 4733 7202 4733'); // false
CardNumber::isInvalid('5580 4733 7202 4732'); // true

CardNumber::isInvalid('5580-4733x7202_47 33'); // false
CardNumber::isInvalid('5580-4733x7202_47 32'); // true
```

In addition to numerical values, you can also validate number-letter combinations. For example:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType;

CardNumber::isValid('EKN-OSX', CardType::chars); // true
CardNumber::isValid('EKN-56X', CardType::chars); // true

CardNumber::isValid('ekn-osx', 'chars'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('ekn-56x', 'chars'); // true

CardNumber::isValid('EKN-OSX'); // false
CardNumber::isValid('EKN-56X'); // false
```

List of available card types:

| Type               | Card Type            | Enum Type                                                  |
|--------------------|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| AmericanExpress    | `amex`               | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::americanExpress`    |
| Chars Number       | `chars`              | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::chars`              |
| Dankort            | `dankort`            | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::dankort`            |
| DinersClub         | `dinersclub`         | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::dinersClub`         |
| Discovery          | `discovery`          | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::discovery`          |
| Forbrugsforeningen | `forbrugsforeningen` | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::forbrugsforeningen` |
| HiperCard          | `hipercard`          | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::hiperCard`          |
| Jcb                | `jcb`                | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::jcb`                |
| Maestro            | `maestro`            | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::maestro`            |
| MasterCard         | `mastercard`         | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::masterCard`         |
| Mir                | `mir`                | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::mir`                |
| Ralf Ringer        | `ralfringer`         | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::ralfRinger`         |
| Troy               | `troy`               | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::troy`               |
| Unionpay           | `unionpay`           | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::unionPay`           |
| Visa               | `visa`               | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::visa`               |
| VisaElectron       | `visaelectron`       | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::visaElectron`       |
| Yves Rocher        | `yvesrocher`         | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::yvesRocher`         |

### Generation

You can also easily generate any numbers using the Luhn algorithm:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;

CardNumber::generate(1);   // 18
CardNumber::generate(2);   // 26
CardNumber::generate(10);  // 109
CardNumber::generate(90);  // 901
CardNumber::generate(908); // 9084
```

You can also use the formatter to format the resulting value:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\BankFormatter;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\LoyaltyFormatter;

$loyalty = LoyaltyFormatter::create();
$bank    = BankFormatter::create();
 
CardNumber::generate(1, $loyalty); // 0018
CardNumber::generate(2, $loyalty); // 0026

CardNumber::generate(12345, $loyalty); // 123-455
CardNumber::generate(23456, $loyalty); // 234-567

CardNumber::generate(123456, $loyalty); // 123-4566
CardNumber::generate(234567, $loyalty); // 234-5676

CardNumber::generate(123456123, $loyalty); // 12-3456-1239
CardNumber::generate(234567123, $loyalty); // 23-4567-1230

CardNumber::generate(558047337202473, $bank); // 5580 4733 7202 4733
CardNumber::generate(529391143678555, $bank); // 5293 9114 3678 5557
```

### Formatters

You can also create your own formatter.
To do this, create a class and inherit it from the `DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\Formatter` abstract class:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\Formatter;

class SomeFormatter extends Formatter
{
    protected int $splitLength = 6;

    protected string $delimiter = '/';
}
```

And use this one:

```php
use App\Cards\Formatters\SomeFormatter;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;

$formatter = SomeFormatter::create();

CardNumber::generate(558047337202473, $formatter); // 5580/473372/024733
```

> List of available formatters:
> * `DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\DefaultFormatter`
> * `DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\BankFormatter`
> * `DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\LoyaltyFormatter`
> * `DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\LoyaltyCharFormatter`

In addition to numeric formatters, you can also use number-letter combinations.
For example, using the "LoyaltyCharsFormatter" formatter, you can generate a letter code instead of a numeric number,
which will be valid when verified by the Luhn's algorithm:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\LoyaltyCharFormatter;

$formatter = LoyaltyCharFormatter::create();

CardNumber::generate(345678123, $formatter); // KN-OSXY-AEKF
```

### Factories

In addition, you can specify factories as an incoming identifier parameter.
In this way, you can form unique identification rules using fluent methods.

This is useful when, for example, you create a customer loyalty card number and want to specify in its number the year
of issue as well as its level.

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Factories\CustomerFactory;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\LoyaltyFormatter;

$formatter = LoyaltyFormatter::create();

$customer = CustomerFactory::create()->level($user->loyalty_level)->customer($user->id);

return CardNumber::generate($customer, $formatter);
// For example, 230-4001-2348
//
//     23     - year
//     04     - loyalty level
//     001234 - user id
//     8      - control digit
```

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Factories\BankFactory;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\BankFormatter;

$formatter = BankFormatter::create();

$customer = BankFactory::create()->paymentType(3)->bank(12, 45, 75)->client(12345);

return CardNumber::generate($customer, $formatter);
// 3012 4575 0012 3452
//
// 3       - payment type
// 012     - bank ID
// 45      - bank info
// 75      - bank's program
// 0012345 - client id
// 2       - control digit
```

> List of available factories:
> * `DragonCode\CardNumber\Factories\BankFactory`
> * `DragonCode\CardNumber\Factories\CustomerFactory`

### Laravel

If you use the Laravel framework, you can also use the validation rule:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Laravel\Validation\Rules\CardNumberRule;
use Illuminate\Foundation\Http\FormRequest;

class SomeRequest extends FormRequest
{
    public function rules(): array
    {
        return [
            'number' => ['required', new CardNumberRule()]
        ];
    }
}
```

You can also check bank cards:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Laravel\Validation\Rules\CardNumberRule;
use Illuminate\Foundation\Http\FormRequest;

class SomeRequest extends FormRequest
{
    public function rules(): array
    {
        return [
            'visa_card_1' => ['required', new CardNumberRule(CardType::visa)],
            'visa_card_2' => ['required', new CardNumberRule('visa')],
            
            'few_cards' => ['required', new CardNumberRule([CardType::visa, CardType::masterCard])],
            'few_cards' => ['required', new CardNumberRule(['visa', 'mastercard'])],
        ];
    }
}
```

## License

This package is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).


[badge_downloads]:  https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/dragon-code/card-number.svg?style=flat-square

[badge_license]:    https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green?style=flat-square

[badge_stable]:     https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/TheDragonCode/card-number?label=stable&style=flat-square

[badge_unstable]:   https://img.shields.io/badge/unstable-dev--main-orange?style=flat-square

[link_license]:     LICENSE

[link_packagist]:   https://packagist.org/packages/dragon-code/card-number

Commit message:

Added the ability to use a custom validator

README.md, after:

# Card Number using Luhn's algorithm

![Luhn-algorithm card-number](https://preview.dragon-code.pro/Luhn's-algorithm/card-number.svg?brand=php&preposition=with)

[![Stable Version][badge_stable]][link_packagist]
[![Unstable Version][badge_unstable]][link_packagist]
[![Total Downloads][badge_downloads]][link_packagist]
[![License][badge_license]][link_license]

## Introduction

Generation and verification of card numbers using Luhn's algorithm: credit, customer loyalty and others.

## Installation

To get the latest version of `Card Number`, simply require the project using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org):

```bash
composer require dragon-code/card-number
```

Or manually update `require` block of `composer.json` and run `composer update` console command.

```json
{
    "require": {
        "dragon-code/card-number": "^1.1"
    }
}
```

## Usage

### Validation

You can validate any numbers with the Luhn algorithm with any input format.

For example:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;

CardNumber::isValid(18); // true
CardNumber::isValid(12); // false

CardNumber::isValid('0018'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('0019'); // false

CardNumber::isValid('123-455'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('123-454'); // false

CardNumber::isValid('12-3456-1239'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('12-3456-1230'); // false

CardNumber::isValid('5580 4733 7202 4733'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('5580 4733 7202 4732'); // false

CardNumber::isValid('5580-4733x7202_47 33'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('5580-4733x7202_47 32'); // false
```

You can validate bank card numbers. To do this, pass the card type as the second argument:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType;

CardNumber::isValid('4026 8434 8316 8683', CardType::visa); // true
CardNumber::isValid('4019 1404 0123 4567', CardType::visa); // true
CardNumber::isValid('2730 1684 6416 1841', CardType::visa); // false
CardNumber::isValid('2201 6868 4646 8444', CardType::visa); // false

CardNumber::isValid('4026 8434 8316 8683', 'visa'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('4019 1404 0123 4567', 'visa'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('2730 1684 6416 1841', 'visa'); // false
CardNumber::isValid('2201 6868 4646 8444', 'visa'); // false
```

You can also check for invalid numbers:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;

CardNumber::isInvalid(18); // false
CardNumber::isInvalid(12); // true

CardNumber::isInvalid('0018'); // false
CardNumber::isInvalid('0019'); // true

CardNumber::isInvalid('123-455'); // false
CardNumber::isInvalid('123-454'); // true

CardNumber::isInvalid('12-3456-1239'); // false
CardNumber::isInvalid('12-3456-1230'); // true

CardNumber::isInvalid('5580 4733 7202 4733'); // false
CardNumber::isInvalid('5580 4733 7202 4732'); // true

CardNumber::isInvalid('5580-4733x7202_47 33'); // false
CardNumber::isInvalid('5580-4733x7202_47 32'); // true
```

In addition to numerical values, you can also validate number-letter combinations. For example:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType;

CardNumber::isValid('EKN-OSX', CardType::chars); // true
CardNumber::isValid('EKN-56X', CardType::chars); // true

CardNumber::isValid('ekn-osx', 'chars'); // true
CardNumber::isValid('ekn-56x', 'chars'); // true

CardNumber::isValid('EKN-OSX'); // false
CardNumber::isValid('EKN-56X'); // false
```

List of available validation types:

| Type               | Type                 | Enum                                                       |
|--------------------|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| AmericanExpress    | `amex`               | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::americanExpress`    |
| Chars Number       | `chars`              | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::chars`              |
| Dankort            | `dankort`            | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::dankort`            |
| DinersClub         | `dinersclub`         | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::dinersClub`         |
| Discovery          | `discovery`          | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::discovery`          |
| Forbrugsforeningen | `forbrugsforeningen` | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::forbrugsforeningen` |
| HiperCard          | `hipercard`          | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::hiperCard`          |
| Jcb                | `jcb`                | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::jcb`                |
| Maestro            | `maestro`            | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::maestro`            |
| MasterCard         | `mastercard`         | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::masterCard`         |
| Mir                | `mir`                | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::mir`                |
| Ralf Ringer        | `ralfringer`         | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::ralfRinger`         |
| Troy               | `troy`               | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::troy`               |
| Unionpay           | `unionpay`           | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::unionPay`           |
| Visa               | `visa`               | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::visa`               |
| VisaElectron       | `visaelectron`       | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::visaElectron`       |
| Yves Rocher        | `yvesrocher`         | `DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType::yvesRocher`         |

#### Custom Validators

In some cases there may not be enough built-in validators and therefore you can easily use your own.
To do this, create a class and inherit it from the abstract `DragonCode\CardNumber\Validators\CardValidator`,
and then pass a reference to it in the `cardType` parameter:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Validators\CardValidator;

class SomeValidator extends CardValidator
{
    protected static ?string $pattern = '/^[3-5]{3}/';

    protected static array $numberLength = [4];
}

CardNumber::isValid(3459, SomeValidator::class); // true
CardNumber::isValid(2451, SomeValidator::class); // false

CardNumber::isInvalid(3459, SomeValidator::class); // false
CardNumber::isInvalid(2451, SomeValidator::class); // true
```

### Generation

You can also easily generate any numbers using the Luhn algorithm:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;

CardNumber::generate(1);   // 18
CardNumber::generate(2);   // 26
CardNumber::generate(10);  // 109
CardNumber::generate(90);  // 901
CardNumber::generate(908); // 9084
```

You can also use the formatter to format the resulting value:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\BankFormatter;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\LoyaltyFormatter;

$loyalty = LoyaltyFormatter::create();
$bank    = BankFormatter::create();
 
CardNumber::generate(1, $loyalty); // 0018
CardNumber::generate(2, $loyalty); // 0026

CardNumber::generate(12345, $loyalty); // 123-455
CardNumber::generate(23456, $loyalty); // 234-567

CardNumber::generate(123456, $loyalty); // 123-4566
CardNumber::generate(234567, $loyalty); // 234-5676

CardNumber::generate(123456123, $loyalty); // 12-3456-1239
CardNumber::generate(234567123, $loyalty); // 23-4567-1230

CardNumber::generate(558047337202473, $bank); // 5580 4733 7202 4733
CardNumber::generate(529391143678555, $bank); // 5293 9114 3678 5557
```

### Formatters

You can also create your own formatter.
To do this, create a class and inherit it from the `DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\Formatter` abstract class:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\Formatter;

class SomeFormatter extends Formatter
{
    protected int $splitLength = 6;

    protected string $delimiter = '/';
}
```

And use this one:

```php
use App\Cards\Formatters\SomeFormatter;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;

$formatter = SomeFormatter::create();

CardNumber::generate(558047337202473, $formatter); // 5580/473372/024733
```

> List of available formatters:
> * `DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\DefaultFormatter`
> * `DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\BankFormatter`
> * `DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\LoyaltyFormatter`
> * `DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\LoyaltyCharFormatter`

In addition to numeric formatters, you can also use number-letter combinations.
For example, using the "LoyaltyCharsFormatter" formatter, you can generate a letter code instead of a numeric number,
which will be valid when verified by the Luhn's algorithm:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\LoyaltyCharFormatter;

$formatter = LoyaltyCharFormatter::create();

CardNumber::generate(345678123, $formatter); // KN-OSXY-AEKF
```

### Factories

In addition, you can specify factories as an incoming identifier parameter.
In this way, you can form unique identification rules using fluent methods.

This is useful when, for example, you create a customer loyalty card number and want to specify in its number the year
of issue as well as its level.

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Factories\CustomerFactory;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\LoyaltyFormatter;

$formatter = LoyaltyFormatter::create();

$customer = CustomerFactory::create()->level($user->loyalty_level)->customer($user->id);

return CardNumber::generate($customer, $formatter);
// For example, 230-4001-2348
//
//     23     - year
//     04     - loyalty level
//     001234 - user id
//     8      - control digit
```

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\CardNumber;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Factories\BankFactory;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Formatters\BankFormatter;

$formatter = BankFormatter::create();

$customer = BankFactory::create()->paymentType(3)->bank(12, 45, 75)->client(12345);

return CardNumber::generate($customer, $formatter);
// 3012 4575 0012 3452
//
// 3       - payment type
// 012     - bank ID
// 45      - bank info
// 75      - bank's program
// 0012345 - client id
// 2       - control digit
```

> List of available factories:
> * `DragonCode\CardNumber\Factories\BankFactory`
> * `DragonCode\CardNumber\Factories\CustomerFactory`

### Laravel

If you use the Laravel framework, you can also use the validation rule:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Laravel\Validation\Rules\CardNumberRule;
use Illuminate\Foundation\Http\FormRequest;

class SomeRequest extends FormRequest
{
    public function rules(): array
    {
        return [
            'number' => ['required', new CardNumberRule()]
        ];
    }
}
```

You can also check bank cards:

```php
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Enums\CardType;
use DragonCode\CardNumber\Laravel\Validation\Rules\CardNumberRule;
use Illuminate\Foundation\Http\FormRequest;

class SomeRequest extends FormRequest
{
    public function rules(): array
    {
        return [
            'visa_card_1' => ['required', new CardNumberRule(CardType::visa)],
            'visa_card_2' => ['required', new CardNumberRule('visa')],
            
            'few_cards' => ['required', new CardNumberRule([CardType::visa, CardType::masterCard])],
            'few_cards' => ['required', new CardNumberRule(['visa', 'mastercard'])],
        ];
    }
}
```

## License

This package is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).


[badge_downloads]:  https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/dragon-code/card-number.svg?style=flat-square

[badge_license]:    https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green?style=flat-square

[badge_stable]:     https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/TheDragonCode/card-number?label=stable&style=flat-square

[badge_unstable]:   https://img.shields.io/badge/unstable-dev--main-orange?style=flat-square

[link_license]:     LICENSE

[link_packagist]:   https://packagist.org/packages/dragon-code/card-number
